---
layout: post
title: Blog Post 0
---
## Introduction
Hi! My Name is Elliot Shin, and today I will be guiding you through creating a data visualization using the Palmer Penguins pandas dataframe!
No need to be alarmed, as we will only be looking at Penguins, and not pandas. Pandas simply refers to the package in python that makes working with data a little bit easier. It also comes with some cool useful functions for creating plots! 

## Step 1: Importing the Data
First, we need to get the data!
```python
import pandas as pd
from matplotlib import pyplot as plt
url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PhilChodrow/PIC16B/master/datasets/palmer_penguins.csv"
penguins = pd.read_csv(url)

```
The first line is us importing the pandas package and renaming it pd for the purposes of this assignment. This is the conventional style, as it saves some time (plus all the posts on stack overflow regarding pandas refer to it as pd as well). 

The second line, much like the first, is another package we will use later on for plotting!

## Step 2: Data Inspection 
Now we need to explore what our data looks like and gain some insight as to what variables we can work with. 
```python
penguins.head(10) #show the first ten rows of the penguins dataframe

```
We can see that the datset has variables such as species name, Island, culmen length and depth, sex, etc.

We can also see the summary statistics for the numerical variables using this line of code:
```python
penguins.describe()

```

Let's see if we can spot any differences between the different species types and their respective statistics.

## Step 3: How Many Species are there?

So we want to group our data by species type, the next logical question is: "How many different types of species are there and what are they?"

First we want to just get the first word from the species variable, to do so, let's alter the "Species" column of the penguin dataset

```python
penguins["Species"] = penguins["Species"].str.split().str.get(0) #retrieve the first word of the Species column


```

Wow! Looks complex doesn't it? It is actually a really simple line of code if you know your data types and functions

From left to right it reads: "Let's change the penguins["Species] column into the penguins["Species"] column converted into a string, split that string so that each word is now an element of a list, convert each element of the list into a string, and get hte first element of each list". Essentially, since each penguin is recorded as ___ penguin. We are just interested in gaining the ___ . 

Now we want to figure out how many unique values are present in the species column. Good thing there is a data type that does just that! Set!

```python
species_set = set(penguins["Species"]) #create a set of unique values out of all the species values
species_set
```
Turns out that there are 3 unique types of species: Adelie, Chinstrap, and Gentoo! 

## Step 4: Plotting
Let's see the relationship between culmen depth and culmen length for between each species! 

```python
fig, ax = plt.subplots(1) #create one subplot object, which returns two things:a figure and an axis, which we have aptly named

for x in species_set: #for each unique species name (Adelie, Chinstrap, Gentoo) do the following
	length = penguins["Culmen Length (mm)"]
	depth = penguins["Culmen Depth (mm)"]
	mask = penguins["Species"] == x 
	ax.scatter(length[mask],depth[mask], label = x, alpha = 0.5)
    ax.set(xlabel = "Culmen Length (mm)", ylabel = "Culmen Depth (mm)")

ax.legend()

```


